---
title: Health
layout: article
mode: immersive
header:
  theme: dark
  background: 'linear-gradient(135deg, rgb(34, 139, 87), rgb(139, 34, 139))'
article_header:
  type: overlay
  theme: dark
  background_color: '#203028'
  background_image:
    gradient: 'linear-gradient(135deg, rgba(34, 139, 87 , .4), rgba(139, 34, 139, .4))'
    src: /assets/images/cover3.jpg  
tags: Health
sidebar: 
   nav: health-en
--- 



### What Does “Mind Body and Spirit” Truly Mean?
You have heard people talk about the connection between the mind, body, and spirit. Many people have a hazy interpretation of what it means, but it simply pertains to an individual’s mental, physical, and emotional/spiritual health.

You have likely noticed that when something is troubling you mentally or emotionally, you actually begin to manifest symptoms physically. Your heart starts racing, you may sweat more than usual, you have a hard time sleeping because you keep thinking about the problem – and you begin to feel lethargic and fatigued. This is when the mind-body-spirit are out of balance.

However, when your mind is at peace, you are more likely to be happier, kinder, and more grateful, because you’re not so embroiled from within. Physically, you are relaxed and ready to take on whatever life throws your way.

### The Connection Between Mind, Body, and Spirit
Dealing with struggles is a part of life that cannot always be avoided. Strengthening the connection between the mind, body, and spirit takes effort, so here is how these three factors work together to benefit your overall health:

### A Healthy Mind
Someone with a healthy mind keeps the brain exercised regularly, and stress and worry are kept at bay by choice. Positive thoughts, gratitude, and a feeling of joy are present, and there is a thirst for knowledge and learning. Just like the brain requires sleep every night, the brain also requires things to think about and to ponder.

### A Healthy Body
A healthy body is free of disease and illness, and it is not riddled with pain. Bodily health is also made possible by a healthy diet, good nutrition, and regular exercise.

A healthy body naturally wants to move and seeks activity. Maintaining physical health also includes keeping regular checkups with your primary care doctor in order to prevent illness, or to detect it and treat it right away if a disease does exist.

### A Healthy Spirit
Being spiritual is being centered and having an understanding that you are part of something much bigger than yourself. Facilitating a healthy spirit includes being part of a community to share yourself with others, and to give without expecting anything tangible in return. A healthy spirit requires love.

